The President:
Today, there's a debate going on
in Washington over the best way
to get America's fiscal house in
order and get our economy on a
stronger footing going forward.
For a decade, America has been
spending more money than we've
taken in.
And for several decades,
our debt has been rising.
Let's be honest -- neither
party in this town is blameless.
Both have talked this problem
to death without doing enough
about it.
That's what drives people
nuts about Washington.
Too often, it's a place more
concerned with playing politics
and serving special interests
than resolving real problems or
focusing on what you're
facing in your own lives.
But right now, we have
a responsibility --
and an opportunity -- to reduce
our deficit as much as possible
and solve this problem in a
real and comprehensive way.
Simply put, it will take
a balanced approach,
shared sacrifice, and a
willingness to make unpopular
choices on all our parts.
That means spending less
on domestic programs.
It means spending less
on defense programs.
It means reforming programs like
Medicare to reduce costs and
strengthen the program
for future generations.
And it means taking
on the tax code,
and cutting out certain tax
breaks and deductions for the
wealthiest Americans.
Now, some of these things
don't make folks in my party
too happy.
And I wouldn't agree to some
of these cuts if we were in a
better fiscal situation,
but we're not.
That's why I'm
willing to compromise.
I'm willing to do what it
takes to solve this problem,
even if it's not
politically popular.
And I expect leaders in Congress
to show that same willingness
to compromise.
The truth is, you can't
solve our deficit without
cutting spending.
But you also can't solve it
without asking the wealthiest
Americans to pay
their fair share --
or without taking on loopholes
that give special interests and
big corporations tax
breaks that middle-class
Americans don't get.
It's pretty simple.
I don't think oil companies
should keep getting special tax
breaks when they're making
tens of billions in profits.
I don't think hedge fund
managers should pay taxes at a
lower rate than
their secretaries.
And I don't think it's fair to
ask nothing of someone like me
when the average family has seen
their income decline over the
past decade -- and when many of
you are just trying to stretch
every dollar as
far as it will go.
We shouldn't put the burden of
deficit reduction on the backs
of folks who've already borne
the brunt of the recession.
It's not reasonable
and it's not right.
If we're going to ask
seniors, or students,
or middle-class
Americans to sacrifice,
then we have to ask corporations
and the wealthiest Americans to
share in that sacrifice.
We have to ask everyone
to play their part.
Because we are all part
of the same country.
We're all in this together.
So I've put things on the table
that are important to me and to
Democrats, and I expect
Republican leaders to
do the same.
After all, we've worked
together like that before.
Ronald Reagan worked with Tip
O'Neill and Democrats to cut
spending, raise revenues,
and reform Social Security.
Bill Clinton worked with Newt
Gingrich and Republicans to
balance the budget
and create surpluses.
Nobody ever got
everything they wanted.
But eventually, they
worked together.
And they moved this
country forward.
That kind of cooperation should
be the least you expect from us
-- not the most
you expect from us.
You work hard, you
do what's right,
and you expect leaders
who do the same.
You sent us to Washington
to do the tough things.
The right things.
Not just for some of
us, but for all of us.
Not just what's enough to get
through the next election --
but what's right for
the next generation.
You expect us to get this right.
To put America back on
firm economic ground.
To forge a healthy,
growing economy.
To create new jobs and rebuild
the lives of the middle class.
And that's what I'm
committed to doing.
Thanks.